I'm back in the ECS
management console now and what I want to do in this lab is show you a couple of ways that we can
scale our cluster.
So firstly I want to add an additional task so we have one task which has a container running in
the WordPress container and mysql container and what I want to do is just run another instance
of WordPress so I can go into run tasks.
I'm going to choose easy to choose WordPress tool for my task definition and then we're just going to
choose one more task we can leave all the other defaults here and there's a whole bunch of advanced
options if you need to specify things like the task execution role. We don't need that for now.
So we're just going to click runs task and we can see that the task has been added and it's in a pending
state.
So that didn't take long and it's now in a running state.
So we have two tasks in a running state and we can easily connect into this one and see the the WordPress
console.
But what I want to do now is actually show you how to do the same thing by the command line and I'm
going to clear this screen because it's getting a bit messy.
The command I'm going to use the AWS ECS commands.
Now we're using the AWS CLI and we just specify AWS ECS run task and then dash, cluster, we
give it the cluster name and then task definition, and we give it the task definition.
Now I know that I've got WordPress column for that was the most recent one I used.
So that's just a different revision of the same task.
And I just want to execute or launch one additional task so let's press enter
and straight away we get a failure and it says the reason is the resource memory
so if we head back to the console you remember we have to see two instances and there's insufficient
memory available in these in order to launch another task.
So what I want to do is add additional instances to this cluster.
So additional container instances and the way I'm going to do that is just to launch through the console.
So let's go to EC2 and we can see that we already have our existing ECS instances and what we
want to do now is add an additional container instance to our cluster we're going to go to the EC2
management console and we can see our existing instances.
Now what I want to do is capture the AMI I.D. from one of these instances and I'm going to copy that
to my clipboard and we now need to go to community AMI is now there's two ways to find an EMI you can
choose to type in ECS optimised and you'll find all these ECS optimised images.
So these are AMIs with the ECS agent installed or what I've just done to make sure I get exactly the
same version is use the AMI ID.
So I'm going to select we're going to configure a t2 micro.
I'm going to select my VPC and I'm going to choose a public subnet.
Now I want to use my ECS instance role here so make sure you select you.
I am row we're then going to specify some user data.
What we need to do to add an instance to a cluster is we need to add the ECS cluster equals and then
cluster name to the ECS config file which is in /etc/ecs.
So we just have an echo command to echo that end so make sure you modify your cluster names or whatever
you've used will then go to security groups and we can just choose web access and we can review
and launch
so that should add an additional instance to our cluster and it's going to take a few minutes for that
to come up.
I just gave that a couple of minutes and we can now see that we have three active container instances
in our cluster what I want to do is go over to our command line and I'm going to issue the commands
to have a look at what tasks are running so I can get the task I.D. and then we're going to start an
additional task using the command line.
Now before we do that I want to show you how you can stop a task so we can issue the command either
by ECS stop task, give it our cluster name, and then we need to give it the task I.D..
So let's take the ID of one of these tasks paste in and I think there is a space at the beginning
where
and so we should see that this has now stopped so you can see in the config here that the desired status
has changed to stopped by the last status was running.
If we go back and reissue our command to list the the tasks we can see that we've got a stopped and
an exit code.
What I want to do now is start an additional task.
What I want to do now is show you how to start a task from the command line.
So in this case we run the command AWS ECS run task and then we give it the cluster details we specify
our task definition and then how many tasks we want and we hit enter.
And so now we see that we have a desired status for this new task of running and a lsst status of pending.
And if we go back and we issue our command to view tasks we now have two running tasks each with a container
running WordPress in a container running mysql. Well that's it for this lab guys what we're going
to do now is just take down this cluster because in the next lab we're going to create a new cluster
using the AWS CLI and we're then going to attach an elastic load balancer to a service.
So the command that we need to run is ecs cli down and then we do dash dash force and then cluster
config and we give it the name of our cluster and we should see now that the cloudformation stack is
being deleted and this will just take a few minutes and it should remove all your cluster resources.